# FakeNEWS
EEC 626 Project :
                      These days use of social media or other online platforms are getting used as digital weapons. As millions of users are there on Face book & Instagram (over 2billions), Twitter (claims 290.5 million monthly active users) spreading rumors & counterfeit news as a part of yellow journalism are very common practice these days. It is trouble-free to mess up the image of any person or organization using false allegations, mostly during elections so with help of machine learning we decided to develop algorithm to classify fake and real news.
                                 We are currently living in a world where each single aspect is revolving around the social media, online platforms, Internet etc. Even for the news we check all the time social media. Ease of use has made social media a gigantic digital dumping yard, where everyone is posting all kind of information. And it is hard to distinguish between real and fake news. Rumors, Incorrect information, false allegations are easy to impose to rupture the image of any person, country or organization in few seconds with trillions of users. It is really significant to check and verify the truth behind it. Machine learning helps us in training the model and then tests it. My project will help to spot and segregate true /false news. 
                         Developing machine learning algorithm to identify real vs. fake news from a data set. With this project using ‘python’ language, we developed the model using training dataset to analyze it and finally we tested it using our own developed model. As a part of Data Mining we have to go through with several steps to clean the data before using it so first of all we preprocessed it, remove all null values, drop irrelevant information from the data set, and then implement logics to recognize real vs fake information. Finally at the end we tested model with the test set. We have used python inbuilt functions, libraries to implement business logic. 
Our goal was, the final output should be able to interpret fake news correctly.
        We all know that Data mining shows most impactful results if we implement & deploy it strategically to get the proper solution to a problem. Here we are planning to categorize entire data into two sets with labels (0 for fake news and 1 for real news). 


Code File is FakeNews (Clean Code).ipynb 
You can follow user manual to execute the code
Data Set is provided through email
